The Big Bang Theory in the sort of history of Hollywood and television holds a unique place because if you're not familiar with the show, it's one of the few shows that sort of focuses on people in STEM backgrounds, physicists, scientists, engineers.
That's not usually the people that Hollywood likes to focus on, especially when it comes to situational comedies.
But the Big Bang Theory is focused on those characters, and one of the ways it does this, it's really creative in this way, is through a non-STEM person, a non-engineer scientist.
Her name's Penny.
She's a waitress at the Cheesecake Factory, and she happens to live across the hall from the two main characters, the physicists in the show.
And it's her sort of introduction into their world that gives you the opportunity to kind of poke fun or make fun at some of the strange things that people with an engineering background or a science background, the kind of rigidly logical way that some of us often see the world.
Well, one of the most sort of I think kind of special and meaningful and funny episodes of that show happens at Christmas time.
Penny, who is the
girl next door.
She tells Sheldon who is the main genius in the show.
He's the kind of the physicist genius.
She tells him that she's bought him a Christmas present.
And you would think that this is a positive thing, but of course Sheldon takes it very negatively.
And he's all stressed out about this present that's been purchased for him.
And so to try to explain why he's so stressed out, Sheldon says, you know, like,
Present giving is a stressful operation because, again, this is the very logical sort of way.
He's like, you gotta try to figure out what the other person is gonna give you.
And then you gotta try to buy something that is commeasure it in sort of value and effort to the present that you don't know what it is.
And so in a very sort of OCD way, he begins to stress out how to solve the gift-giving conundrum.
Well, in his sort of brilliant mind, he comes up with a solution.
And Sheldon's solution is that he goes to a Bath and Body Works kind of store and he finds gift baskets with lots of Bath and Body Works kinds of things that he's going to buy for Penny.
But in order to solve the problem of which one to buy, he buys all of them.
So he buys the very small one all the way to the extremely large, very expensive one.
And this is his strategy.
He places them all in his roommate's bedroom.
And when Penny gives him the present, his plan is he's going to fake digestive issues at that moment after opening her present, excuse himself, go back, Google how much her present costs, choose the appropriate gift basket that goes with that cost of a present, bring that one out, then after she's gone, he'll return all the rest of them for a full refund.
So Sheldon is convinced he solved this whole issue.
And so when the day comes, Penny shows up and she's got a present for him.
And so he opens the present.
And when he initially opens the present, you can see kind of this confusion and disappointment on his face because it's a napkin.
It's a napkin from the cheesecake factory where she works.
And so Sheldon is confused because he, I don't think he thinks he has anything that low to give her.
Well, Penny laughs.
He's like, no, no, no.
Silly, turn the napkin over.
Well, on the other side of the napkin, it's been signed by Leonard Nimoy.
Now, Leonard Nimoy, some of your old enough to know, he is the person who plays Spock on the original Star Trek series.
And in the show, he is Sheldon's hero.
Not only has Leonard Nimoy signed the napkin, he also wiped his mouth with it.
Sheldon thinks he has Leonard Nimoy's DNA in his possession.
So again, most situational comedies in Hollywood do not focus on the sort of nerdiness of the science world.
But for those who love this, you know, Leonard Nimoy's signature.
So you can see on Sheldon's face.
So he excuses himself.
He says he has some digestive issues.
He goes running into the back.
I mean, he's overwhelmed at this present.
and the sort of the funny part of the show is he comes back with all the gift baskets.
Gives them all to Penny and then realizes this is not enough, the hundreds and thousands of dollars of gift baskets.
And so he wants to give her one more present.
And so for only the second time in the entire show, he gives somebody a hug.
And it's sort of a funny scene because he's clearly not a hugger.
Now I mention all of this to you because it's really interesting to think, what's the proper response to an overwhelmingly amazing present?
For the past few weeks at the end of 2025, we've been focused on God's love for us, that God is love, and that He demonstrated His love to us by sending His Son Jesus to become a human for our sake.
and to die on a cross and be raised from the dead for our salvation.
As we come to our time of communion as we start thinking about 2026, the question for us to ask, like Sheldon, what's the proper response to such an overwhelming act of love?
I'd like to invite you to take a Bible
and turn back to the passage that we have been in for the past few weeks in 1 John 4.
I'm just going to read us the passage and then give us just a few things to think through.
And then we're going to celebrate communion together.
1 John 4, page 988.
We've worked through this passage a couple of times.
We're going to visit it again next week.
There's still more to say it's a powerful passage.
But this time as we read through the passage, we have been listening for God's love for us, which clearly is here.
But as we prepare to enter into 2026, I'd like for us to listen to what would God like back from us in response to his amazing love for us?
So listen as I read, starting in verse seven.
Dear friends, let us love one another for love comes from God.
Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God.
Whoever does not love does not know God because God is love.
This is how God showed his love among us.
He sent his one and only son into the world
that we might live through Him.
This is love.
Not that we loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins.
Dear friends, since God so loved us, we also ought to love one another.
No one has ever seen God, but if we love one another, God lives in us and His love is made complete in us.
This is how we know that we live in Him and He in us.
He has given us of His Spirit.
And we have seen and testified that the Father has sent His Son to be the Savior of the world.
If anyone acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in them and they in God.
And so we know and rely on the love God has for us.
Once again, God,
is love.
Whoever lives in love lives in God and God in them.
This is how love is made complete among us so that we will have confidence on the day of judgment.
In this world, we are like Jesus.
There is no fear in love, but perfect love drives out fear because fear has to do with punishment.
The one who fears is not made perfect in love.
We love because he first loved us.
Whoever claims to love God yet hates a brother or sister is a liar.
For whoever does not love their brother and sister whom they have seen cannot love God whom they have not seen.
And he has given us this command.
Anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister.
What is the present that God wants back from us?
What is the way that we show gratitude for God's overwhelming generosity to us as we love one another?
Now, you might think the response is that we should love God.
That, of course, is true.
We talked a little bit about that last week.
We love God by accepting the present He gave us and by being willing to accept some difficult things He asks us to do.
But in this passage, the focus is especially upon the present that God wants back from us is for us to love our neighbor, to love others, to love those around us.
Now, if we're honest, sometimes it's a lot easier to love God than it is to love others because God is good and God is kind.
And God is love.
The people we're asked to love don't always deserve that love.
And so as we enter into 2026 during our time of communion, I just like us to think, what's a way in which we can show love to others out of gratitude for the immense
infinite love that God has shown us.
Let me offer a few suggestions, and then we're going to partake of communion together.
The point of these suggestions, they're kind of all over the map, but maybe one might sort of stick in your heart or might spur you to think of something else, but they're all designed to help us sort of think through what might be ways as 2026 begins that we can show love to others.
because God has loved us.
First, what about in sending our children to school when the next semester kicks off this January?
We normally think about sending kids to school for what they can get out of it.
What if we were to think either as the student or as the parent about sending our kids where they're going so that they might be a love to others?
so that the school might be blessed through them.
What if in 2026 you have an assignment coming at work that you have to consider whether to accept or not?
How might you be able to make that decision not on the basis of what's best for your career?
Or what might win you favor with your boss?
But how might you make that decision as to whether to take that assignment or not based on love?
Love for others at work.
Love for your colleagues and coworkers.
How about choosing where to live?
Maybe 2026 is a year in which you might be planning on relocating.
We normally think about housing in terms of what we want.
What do I want out of this apartment?
What do I want out of this house?
What if we were to think about choosing where to live on the basis of how we might be loving towards others?
And we might be a blessing to others in the location of where we're staying.
What if you're planning a big purchase for the year?
Is it possible that the Lord might actually want that money to go to something else?
Something that might be a better blessing for other people, an expression of love for them, as opposed to something we might want for ourselves?
What if your spouse has been asking you to go to marriage counseling?
It's a great expression of love to just simply say, okay, sign us up.
I'm willing to go.
Maybe in 2026, you could serve in children's ministry here at the church.
Lots of other ministries give more immediate satisfaction, perhaps.
But children's ministry is a beautiful act of love and service for others who may not be able to love you in return in the same way.
Maybe in 2026, the Lord wants you to break off a destructive relationship that is harmful to you, but also to another person.
Maybe the most loving and kind thing you can do for that person is simply be done with this dating relationship.
or with this toxic friendship that is not helpful for them or for you.
Could 2026 be a year that you befriend someone who is lonely?
We all like hanging out with people that we already know.
We all like being with people that we have lots of shared history with and can tell stories and talk about experiences together.
But how much of a blessing to God would it be?
If at the beginning of 2026, you and I found someone who is new to the community who didn't have lots of friends or didn't have lots of connections and intentionally set out to befriend that person.
What if in 2026 you decided to try to get to understand the experiences of someone who's a refugee or a racial minority
in this country in which we live.
Love, compassion, kindness is a form of understanding.
What if you make a commitment in 2026 to try to understand better what the experiences of another is in the country or the world in which we live?
What is it like to be in a place where you're not in the majority?
Could 2026 be an opportunity for you or for me to sort of rededicate ourselves to praying for others?
May this be the year that we not just say we're going to pray, but we actually make some efforts to pray.
Maybe you want to begin 2026 with a prayer list to be like, you know what?
I've gone long enough with telling people I'm gonna pray for them and not remembering to do it.
I'm actually gonna write it down.
And I'm going to take time each morning and I'm going to pray for the things that I say I'm going to pray for.
And when I pray for him, I'm going to tell the people that I've been praying.
There's millions of more ways in which we could do this.
But as we come to our time of communion, as we celebrate what God did for us in the person of Jesus, it's like Sheldon receiving a gift.
And you open the gift and you realize
This gift is priceless.
It's beyond anything we could have imagined.
And the proper response as we take communion heading into 2026 is to be able to say, back to the Lord, Lord, I want to do something to love another who might be almost as difficult to love as it is for you to love me.